This is jockel podcast number 301 with echo Charles and me jockel wink good evening echo good evening
How did I end up here?
I'm smart
I'm funny. I look pretty damn handsome if I do say so myself
But here I am
nowhere
And it seems this is where I will always be
Bedroom
It is not an apartment, but it looks like one
cheap furniture will used carpet not clean but not dirty
The bedroom is not unique in its wares bed desk chair dresser
Small bedside table with lamp over headlight
Janky ceiling fan spinning at a low speed
Then there is the day core
Pictures hung neatly on the walls
They are strange
Or at least indicate a strangeness that is hard to interpret
harmless but different
Johnny walks in
20 something leaning towards 20
Pretty damn handsome from unkempt young man who stays up to late and eats the wrong foods and drinks more beer and whiskey than he should
He looks at his brother
Johnny is frustrated
He tries to remain restrained but it can be hard after all these years
What the hell cleaner man? I told you about these shirts
Arty looks distraught
Johnny sees
Johnny cannot stay frustrated
After all
This is Arty his brother
And no one could really be mad at Arty
What?
Is it not clean? Arty replies
Honestly concerned
Wondering if he had somehow failed his brother
No Arty
It isn't that it is not clean
It's clean
But it's just a t-shirt
I know
Arty cuts in
It's 100% cotton t-shirt
I used a warm warm cycle
It shouldn't have shrunk at all
I'm always careful about that
The wrong Arty that's not it
It's just
Never mind
Forget it
What's wrong
This was killing Arty
The one thing he was supposed to be good at
And it seemed like he messed it up
Arty
Johnny replied
As kindly as he could
It's just that it's a t-shirt
You don't press t-shirts
You don't put starch in t-shirts
Buddy
But the creases are sharp
Aren't they?
Arty replies
Wondering what on earth
The problem could be
The creases are sharp
Johnny concedes
But that's not the point
You don't put military creases in t-shirts
I've told you this before
Arty
But why?
Cotton holds the starch really
Well
Johnny starts to get frustrated again
He's been down this road before
Many times
Look cleaner
I know that you always tell me that
And I always tell you
You just don't start your press t-shirts
Because
You just don't do it
Mom likes hers
Pressed
Johnny lets out a sigh
Arty realizes he's gone too far
Listen, Arty, I get it
But I'm not mom
And I don't want my t-shirts
I'm not a star, it's a black Sabbath t-shirt
I just wear it out with a pair of jeans
Okay, can you just give me
Give them a simple, wash and dry
From now on, please
Low heat tumble dry
Arty asks
Wanting to get a good procedure
Lockdown
Johnny smiles
Yeah, Arty
I think that would be perfect
Thanks bud
I can do it now
Arty offers
I gotta go
Okay, it won't happen again Johnny
Thanks Arty
Johnny said with a smile
And Johnny?
Arty asks
What?
I'm sorry
It's okay bud
It's okay
Johnny feels a little bad as Arty walks away
They are brothers
They even look a little like
It isn't too much of a stretch to see the similar jeans
Dark hair
Blue eyes
Pernounced eyebrows
But that is where the similarities end
After all, Arty is different
A little pludgy
Glasses
It is possible to tell from looking at his face
That something isn't quite right
There are medical names that could be assigned
But most of those wouldn't quite hit the mark
He's older than Johnny by six years
But his peculiarities keep him living at home
Johnny on the other hand doesn't have an excuse to still be living at home
Other than Arty and his mom
They both need him around
That's where he tells himself anyway
Johnny's bedroom is the same room he has always had
Matches on the floor, no box spring, no bed frame
Postures of rock bands on the wall from when he was younger
Black Sabbath, motor head
Led Zeppelin, ACDC
Some muscle cars too
He hadn't bothered to take them down as he outgrew them
He also hadn't bothered to clean his room very often
Close remnants of food and beer cans on the floor
This was all a stark contrast to Arty's room
Critically clean with the bed tightly made
And then there are the walls of Arty's room in their curious day core
The walls neatly display pictures of clothes, washing machines and dryers
There are brochures about various lines of laundry equipment on his little desk
Some of the more colorful ones are also hanging on the wall
There are also coupons for laundry detergents, fabric softens
And stain removal products on the desk in an envelope
The source of his nickname, Cleaner
Is no mystery at all
Arty likes to clean
Laundry
To be exact
That right there is the opening
To a new book
A new book called Final Spin
Which was written by me
And it is a novel
I guess that's what it says in the cover
But it's also kind of a poem
It's also kind of a manuscript I don't really know 100%
What to call it but it's not normal in the way that it is written
And so as far as the storyline goes
It's, I was thinking about this
I think it's a little bit of an alternate autobiography of source of your very alternate history books
So it's where they take some event in the past and they change it
What if the Nazis won?
What if the south won the civil war?
They call them alternate history books
So it's kind of thinking this is almost like an alternate biography in a way
Maybe not specifically but maybe some of my friends
Some of the experiences we had
Maybe my life if I'd taken some different turns along the way
Well I didn't know this guy's name is Johnny
The guy's name is Johnny
Yeah but then there's like you're going to see as we talk through this
I'm composite characters and it's almost like everyone's a composite character
What do you mean composite?
Meaning different people from my past kind of
A symbol together
Maybe two people that acted a certain way
Well one characteristic from someone
Maybe a little bit of a characteristic from me
So that was kind of the starting point
These kind of humans and you put them in this situation
So what does the book about?
Let me, I'm going to start off by reading a review of the book
The first review to come out about the book
And this review came from
Something called Publishers Weekly
Which is a publishing trade magazine that's been around since 1872
And the subtitle of this thing is the international news magazine of book publishing in book selling
This is the heavy hitter of this industry
Since the 1940s the book review section
Is sort of become the center of the magazine in the online website
And it carries a lot of weight
And truly ultimately determines a lot of what you read
Depending on how it does and how this publication talks about it
What's interesting is the reviews in publishers weekly are anonymous
They're short
They're blunt
And oftentimes to the point of being brutal
You can see that the people that write them
Can be harsh and very usually crafty writers
So they're harsh in a pretty savage way
I was reading a little bit about it one author said
A negative review is never pleasant
But publishers weekly reviews have a particularly heart-stopping quality
And this guy wrote a piece
I didn't write down his name but it was how he got a bad review
And just what it felt like
Now as I said this book is different
It's not a normal book
It's hard to classify the form that I wrote it in
And I've written a bunch of other books before
Some best selling books in New York Times best selling books
But here's the thing those books were of a different genre
Right
And that means a lot in this world
In the publishing world and the literature world
I've written a bunch of these non-fiction adult books
That's what I've written
And I've written children's fiction books
Right but neither of those are fiction adult books
So it's like saying I played professional football
So I can play professional baseball too
It's sort of like saying that
Which we know
Doesn't really work that way
And most people can't handle that transition
And don't handle that transition
So going into this going into writing the novel
Right I got warned
I've ever talked about this?
Probably
I got warned by my publisher
By my I got warned by my editor
I got warned by my agent
They were
They were I think
Little bit trying to talk me out of it
They're saying it's a different world
And they don't care what you've done before
And they might they might actually hold your other books against you
They kind of say that kind of
Right
And you should just maybe stay in your lane
Which by the way I got that about my kids books too
But
This story
Is one of the stories that's in my head
And I got a lot of stories in my head
And this was the one that bubbled the surface that needed to get out
So I got it out
And this is what publishers weekly had to say
So here we go
From the critics
Final spin a novel by Jaka Willing
Former Navy SEAL and Children's Book author Willink
Way of the Warrior Kids series
Marks is adult fiction debut
With the downbeat and gripping story of a group of characters
Abandoned by the American Dream
At age 23
Johnny cares for his alcoholic mother
And mentally challenged brother Arty
While holding down a dead end job as a stockboy
At a big box store
Arty is obsessed with clean clothes
And when the laundromat where he works is slated to be sold
Johnny decides to buy the business in order to keep Arty employed
To come up with the $40,000 he needs
Johnny and his best friend go
Decide to rob the safe at their store
Hand off the money to the owner
Then high tail at Tomexica
They get the money
But the getaway scheme is flawed from the start
And Johnny and Goat quickly
Have the state police on their trail
To make matters worse
Johnny is forced to say goodbye to his girlfriend Jessica
Who has just found out she is pregnant
Willing tells his story in quick blasts of high coup like writing
And they give the example here
Johnny on the customers at his workplace
They call people
Flesh covered robot beings in need of fuel and meaning
They find both here and quote
With dialogue reminiscent of early David Mehmet
Told with a gritty simplicity
This retains a hold on the reader right through to the inevitable tragic climax
So that's the plot of the book
And that's the impression that they got at publishers weekly
Which was really an awesome review
I was definitely very stoked to read that
As was my literary age and as was my publisher as was my editor
Everyone thinks you're all in the dice
Everyone's nervous
They're scared
Yeah, you kind of are rolling the dice
But the nature of dice is you win and you lose
Yeah, you know a lot of times what people worried about is the losing part
Yeah, but there is the winning part
Yeah, now so they compare me they compare the
The
Writing or at least the dialogue to yeah the dialogue and I want to give myself too much credit here
But they compare the dialogue to David Mehmet Mehmet
Who is
Well straight up he's a Pulitzer Prize winning freaking author
He's a playwright he's a film director director screenwriter he's written all kinds of stuff
You've heard a Glenn Gary Glenn Ross. Yes, sir. Yep. He wrote that. Yeah, coffees for clothes
Always be closing speed the plow he wrote the screenplay for the postman
Always ring twice
Little Jack Nicholson
The verdict the untouchable's hoffa wag the dog Hannibal
He wrote and directed things changed homicide Olianna the wins low boy
Staten main Spartan just a bunch of stuff what I'm saying is that this guy's a highly respected and a
Completter definitely I was
Very pleasantly surprised and humbled to be compared to him in any way, so we were off to a strong start
We're feeling good about it so far. Much appreciated
Because this is a different world
So
It's interesting
appreciate yeah people if you if you want to get the book that will be awesome
And it's not a complete dud. We'll say that
So now this is an interesting we're gonna get into the book a little bit
Which is gonna be a little bit tricky because I don't want our ruin the story story spoiler spoiler alert
So I'm gonna keep it
A little bit focused on not going too much into it, but at the same time getting into the characters a little bit so
The characters
Let's start with this guy, Arty
So we got this guy Arty who
You already heard about he's got some kind of mental challenges which I don't name in the book and the reason I didn't name him in the book is because
A lot of times I've met people in my life where I know that they have some kind of mental challenge, but
I don't know what it is. I'm not a doctor. There's no they're not wearing a label on their
hat that says whatever mental challenge they've got
And so I didn't want a label you know I didn't want to throw a label on there. This is the particular
Situation that this person's in and the other thing is I you know people have such a wide variety of mental challenges that
You don't know what you're gonna get
So
Where did this character came from? Well, this is a very direct story. I worked at Wendy's
Yeah, I don't know if that I don't know if that weren't the hell yeah, but I worked at Wendy's
And when I worked at Wendy's you've been Wendy's before right, which let's face it kind of props to Wendy's Wendy's
Wendy's when he serves it up and I used to I used to get my child on at Wendy's when I was a teenager
Well, at this Wendy's when I worked there was there was a salad bar you know they have a salad bar at Wendy's
I don't know they still have salad bar Wendy's not that I know of oh, I don't know so back in the day
Back in the day they had a salad bar at Wendy's and the person that ran the salad bar
That took care of the salad bar that we supplied the
Peach slices and the Caesar salad dressing was this woman who clearly had she was probably
I'm gonna say 55 maybe 60 years old so older woman thin
Short hair her name was a gene and
She obviously had you know so it seemed like some kind of perhaps autism
But again, I don't know. She's not wearing a label
But she was super into the salad bar
She was probably the best one of the best employees ever she loved this salad bar. She wanted to be squared away
She was out there with a washcloth wiping up if anybody if you spilled a drop of salad dressing on your
on your maneuver from the
Spoon to the plate she was honest she was standing by with a rag
She was gonna wipe that up like almost bumping into you, but she also knew that that wasn't correct
She'd give you you know three quarters of a second to take one step towards the croutons and she was in there
Getting on it
So she's there and she's working and she loved it. I mean like she was obsessed with it and no one would talk to her
Right everyone was kind of mean to her right because you could make fun of her and she was an easy target
And I was cool to you know, I'd always say hi, hi, Jean
I know you know trying to talk to her a little bit and every time I would start a conversation with her
Hey, Jean how are you you know, hey, Jean how's it going today and she'd be like I just opened up a new can of of
Of of Coutons in the bar new a new can of sliced peaches. They're gonna be so good
I'd be awesome
You know and I'd say oh, you know, it's here like lunch break
Hey Jean are you gonna take a lunch break? Yeah, but first I'm gonna get more sliced onions out here and
Have you seen the onions there so fresh she just fired up
to the point where
I was torn
between
thinking
if it was
Unabusive situation where she was being taken advantage of
to where
The others like complete opposite was she just
What are they so well she's so lucky to be there and happy that they hired her and like here she was with this job
So that was one part of it the other part of it that struck me that stuck with me for my whole life
Is that she was
Happy right so here I am this young freaking punk ass kid and I'm there with other
Punk ass kids that are working at Wendy's and everyone's kind of miserable
Right, did you ever work at a fast food joint? Do you ever work at a restaurant? I did not work at a restaurant
The bar nightclub's closest but even being a bouncer in a bar nightclub is not
That's let's face it that's like a little bit kind of cool. Yeah a little bit right you have a little
Pows also a bar back it one point at other clubs and get tender so it's it's service
It's different you're good. It's different it's a little bit cool
Yes, to be a bouncer at a club. Yes, sir, right
I mean that can be a definitely a cool job
It's not cool to work at Wendy's
Run in the grill running the salvage bar. You're not happy about it. There's no benefits
Zero you know you other than you're getting paid money, which is kind of cool
So what struck me what I was remembered is we're all kind of miserable even if this is what I also remember like the the general manager
And I forget to remember his name
But he was like work he was one of those guys. It was just a work working, you know working
Just always pissed off about something like hey, what you know always mad so even the own I mean he was I don't
He's the owner around the because the owner, but he's definitely the general manager
He might have even been the franchise owner or something but he's using there all the time
But you know he had to be making
Legitum at money because when you when you're a general manager one of those you're making good money, but he was freaking miserable
Something to myself everyone here is miss every single person here
100 I mean the how many employees that they probably have
Probably a total of 35 to 40 employees, you know day shift night shift
You know everyone
Everyone's part time, you know, so no one's really working so there's like probably 40 employees there total
And every single one of us was miserable and
Hated life
Except for Jean and she was smiling and she was into it and she was amped
so
I took that idea
and
The reason I ended up with laundry is because I worked at or the where place where I used to go to the laundry mat in San Diego
Had this the people at own the laundry mat
the the they were from Asia and
The wife didn't speak English, but the husband would be kind of be there, but the the the wife didn't speak English
But she'd come out and talk to me
In I don't even know where she was from but she would talk to me and smile and laugh and make jokes
Not in English, not in English, but they were funny
I mean I
They were so funny that I did laugh I would laugh. I would do my wife. I would laugh and whatnot even know what it was about
You know she might point it like you know a pile of clothes and say something
In whatever language you were so I could do it didn't just start laughing if my wife were just laugh
It had to be pretty funny for her to get that but joy on it, right?
So I don't know that I landed on laundry
So there we go there we get already that kind of wraps up this guy already as a character where he came from so now we get this other character Johnny
Which as you said, yeah, it's my guess my
My real first name is John so do we get the Johnny from that kind of but I don't know I maybe just the generic of
Of the name Johnny more than anything else, but but probably the strongest
Influence on this character is a kid that I grew up with a kid named Jeff Lang who I've talked about on this on the spotcast before
So Jeff Lang was like my best friend
From maybe
Third grade
Maybe second no probably second second first or second grade
until
seventh grade and
in fifth grade when we we were in the same classroom together all day
Because that's before you start going to different classes, right?
So fifth grade we were in the same class, you know sitting next to each other and we were we were
Trouble makers right just always getting in trouble always causing problems always you know laughing when we shouldn't be laughing
Just doing stuff that we shouldn't have been doing
But he was always a little bit more
He had a little bit he had a little bit less obedience in him. I didn't have much
He had even less obedience in him so like at that point when the teacher would
Threaten or you you'd be quieter you're going to the office
That was he could I got checked by that
Jeff wouldn't get checked by that he connects level gets sent to the office, right?
So he had a little bit extra and he was super funny
I mean hilarious, you know kind of an athletic stud
Which what does that mean that means when you're in fifth grade you kind of kick acid dodge ball right click kick ball and he's really good in run
So yeah, just fast and all that stuff just a good at really good athlete better than me
funnier than me
Tall you know just just a good
He was just kind of like a little bit better than me and everything and he also had a little bit of extra rebelliousness
So
As we got older
I started kind of we we started started to deviate in our lives together
You know we were we were still always friends but he started like
Drinking started doing drugs started listening to I guess he went down like the kind of
hippie music drugs that kind of thing and I was going into the hardcore music and more like the straight edge thing and so our paths really kind of deviate it
But we were still friends because we were such good friends for so long that it doesn't matter what he's doing and what I'm doing
We're still friends we just have this you know huge common connection and as we got so so as we got older
He went really you know, I don't even know if he I don't even remember if he graduated high school
Because he went hard you know doing drugs and drinking and just doing that whole thing
And not not a bad person that's just what he was doing and still I'd see him see him in town
We you know we'd always connect we'd always just had that friendship and I remember I joined the military during the Navy
And you know small town and he kind of knew
He'd heard what was going on and then I saw
And I remember he said something to me
Because you know when we were little kids we would play army all the time right when you're look when you're
Seven years old ten years old 12 years old and you live in the woods you're playing army
Right you're putting your burn in a cork and putting make your face black and put in camo on and
Shoot and be guns at each other. That's what we did. We put you be be guns at each other and
Every time you got hit you had to take a layer of clothing off
And I remember the red rider it makes a little boom when it it's like
This it's spring active. Oh yeah, and because you know we try and put limits on the number of pumps
You could put on the pump backs right and but I remember the red rider because you you could hear it boom
And then you hit you
So so you know he was into the same kind of stuff. I was and then as we got older we deviated
So I see him the last time I see him before I leave for the Navy
he's
You know clearly
Not on a great path
And he said something to me along the lines of
He said yeah, you're doing the Navy I said yeah
And I'm even remember if we if he knew what a seal was I think he kind of did
The only I kind of did it that time you know new too much about it
But he's I'm gonna reset something like hey, I wish I could go with you and I was like you can't bro, let's go
And I could see like maybe that could
And he said I can't he's I can't I can't
Something like I can't anymore like he had knew he was kind of too far gone
To correct the path that he was on
So I end up going the Navy and I was going through seal training and I was
Probably around
Just before hell week maybe just after a week I forget but I called my parents to check in I talked to my mom
And I found out that Jeff had killed himself and he had he had broken up with his girlfriend at the time and he'd killed himself
And that was you know just just a
Very sad
Because well, I think what made it the most sad to me was that he had gone down this path
And he had way more potential than I had as a human and and
It was all gone
And that was really sad and then when when I looked him up, you know, this is when the last time I recorded
I talked about him on this podcast for a couple of years ago
I had googled him just googled his name which you can google people from you know
1745 and there's some
record and there's some
Genealogy report about who they were and you google someone from 1942 and there's you know an obituary about who they were and I googled his name and
There was like nothing
nothing
Which is just
Carb because he was freaking hilarious smart
on a just an awesome guy
And and quite I didn't mention this but the book you know the dedication of the book is just says for Jeff Lang
So that was sort of
A lot of where this character Johnny came from somebody with kind of potential and
Just
Stuck made bad choices
Maybe not bad choices but different choices maybe had some bad luck thrown in there
Live this life
So that's Johnny you hear about these too
Next up you get a guy named goat who's Johnny's best friend. I'm gonna I'm gonna go to
page 7 here in the book
Nice shirt man goat says with a smile as he sees Johnny's starched black Sabbath T-shirt
It's military creases running from each shoulder down to the waist up yours Johnny replies
That cotton really holds the crease doesn't it yeah does Johnny says you couldn't iron them out or anything
I tried but damn he uses an industrial press and he looks at me like I'm ripping his heart out what can I say
My brother is crazy
Yeah, but that son of a bitch can iron some shirts can he he sure is hell can you want another one
What time do we have to be at work go to ask
Not until 10 30 shit. Let's do this two more Lucy Johnny says to the bar made
BB's bar
Dingy working class watering hole cheap final seats even cheaper drinks
Go is about the same age as Johnny though he looks a little younger
His dark skin has an almost childlike texture his black hair looks as if it is always organized
Regardless of what he has been doing
His eyes are dark and deep
He is handsome
He too has that look about him that says he shouldn't be here
Shouldn't be in a dead end job
shouldn't be in a dead end bar
shouldn't be in a dead end life
But he is
So there's go
Full name George Martinez
That is Johnny's best friend and again
This guy is kind of a composite character of
Friends that I had grown up the story takes place in southern California
So he's a Mexican kid. I grew up with a bunch of white people primarily
But when you're out in California you see the there's really no distinction between you know different people
um
And that's just another kid another kid that has a bunch of potential another kid that's talented another kid that's smart another kid that's handsome
And another kid that's kind of stuck in a dead end sense scenario with what I said dead end job dead and bar dead in life right
That's where we end up
That's where we're at
And
Well, we were talking before the podcast about the young
I think I think carry was saying you remember what it was like when you were younger and it was just all in kind of like you're just on board
Right down for the call it's right down for the cause and that was
The characteristic that I kind of tried to throw in here with goat was that characteristic of being down for the cause and what's cool
What when you when you talked about Johnny being based on me
There's parts definitely elements of me in Johnny for sure, but one of the elements that's that's from me in goat is just down for the cause
I've been to stuff that you do in your
16 17 18 and then when I got in the Navy your 19 20 years old guess what oh that's what as you like to say echo
That's what we're doing
Yep down for the cause. We're down
We're ready to go well with that is that what we're doing hey all right once you kind of flip that switch
That's why man the young the young men in the world
They'll do some crazy shit
Sometimes because they're just reddit rock and roll
Ready to rock and roll so there's you two main characters and again
One of the things one of the immediate feedback points
When I submitted the manuscript
And
Was how about some more character development
Right and what I said is you already know these characters
We already know these characters. We grew up with these characters everybody knows these people
Everybody knows these people we all know them
We are them in many ways
So I was like what what what what what also I need to tell you
What else do I need to tell you you know these people I know these people
There's your character development look around
You
Started this with Arty
Mm-hmm, and that's one of the first things that jumped out of me
Or it's like not only do I know who that guy is I've known a guy or girl like that since I was a little kid
And it's just he's just there. He's down for his cause some negative some positive some or like
Angry at everyone somewhere. It's just happy to see every you know like but but really in it not it kind of in a generic
Almost kind of way. I mean it's more particular because because of the book and everything right but you know that guy
Totally know that guy that's the first thing that you're telling me for Arty already. Oh, yeah, and how many Arty's have you known about?
Yeah, but they fit that in one way or another little different flavor
Yeah, yeah, sure, you know, oh man. I could go deep into it too where some people would tease them just like your girl Jean same exact thing
And they're everywhere so it's like yeah, you know we all know Arty
I think we all know Arty we all know Jean we all know Johnny well know goat
These are our people and there's the character development yeah, and look obviously there's more character
Velpon that's goes on but you know
For me to take the time to explain this this is one thing you're you're gonna notice when you read this book is
I'm not I'm trying not to waste any time. Yeah. I'm trying not to waste any words
It I'm trying to get you there it get you there get you into this as quick as possible and allow you to
To utilize what you already know as a person yeah to to put the context around what's happening
Use the schema. I was reading this book and they went deep in the word schema. Yeah
That's like you stuff that you already know to describe something new right interesting and you use like
You do this in real life too where you use less words than necessary kind of thing and it's weird because it makes you kind of go like
Deep in your own head almost when you're like even that one when you're describing you know
People you know me however be described in the news just like it's like
You didn't do this like the opposite of the the opposite of that is like some grandiose thing where it's like
You know one after another the people piled in like this and like that and then this person and it's
But note you did the exact opposite but meanwhile you get the same effect but it's more like in your own
And like real personal kind of you know there's something I talk about with leadership. It's
Minimum force required right I as a leader want to use the minimum force
To get you to do what I want you to do yeah to get you to do what we need to do right minimum force required
I don't want to say hack or here's what you need to do I might say hack or what you think about doing this and you're like
Oh, yeah, that's probably be good right I want to use the minimum force
I try and write I try to write this book where the the feeling is there with the minimum amount of words
Get the point across with the minimum amount of words
It does add drama to it
That because even in real life this book aside
Like it's more dramatic that way well I also say all the time the less you talk to more people listen
Yeah, I give that as leadership counsel hey if you're in there and you got something to say in a meeting and you say it in
14 sentences and it takes you seven minutes
Yeah, maybe 14 second maybe maybe maybe it takes you seven minutes to say something
That you could have said in
14 seconds the 14 second route was way is way preferred of course and it's gonna have so much more impact
Yes, but let's face it the added specifically added drama
Is undeniable like so if if we're here. I don't know let's say we had to I don't know make key chains or something and
There was like a hundred thousand key chains that needed to be made and we get here five p.m. whatever and I ask you
And you're like yeah, we need to get these done or whatever and then I look at them and go hey, are we gonna do all these tonight and and
There's two different scenarios where you could be like you know what yeah, we're gonna we're gonna get all these done tonight or you could just look at me
I know are the answers fucking yes, yeah, oh, it's hell. He has much way much dramatic
Yeah, you don't even say anything say anything right or you could pull which would you typically do you'll just say yes and that's it
I want more I want you to make me feel good. I want to but it's just this big black hole of
Nothingness that I'm just left with except for yes like with that you you got to make of it
Whatever you're gonna make of it, but yes, you know, so it's like how we merge back
Good so that's what the book is written like
Um
I we're gonna roll into don't just trying to give some of the characters right some of the some of the characters here's the
I guess this is our leading female character in the book here we go
She is a pretty but tough looking girl
thick black hair that wants to curl but is for the most part stringed by its own weight and volume
pale skin dark eyes eyes with a hint of fight left in them
But most of the fight is gone
Born away by long hours and hard work and worn away by the reality of life
Jessica
Where have you been she asks working where else Johnny responds defensively you can't call or anything
Sorry he replies. I'm a prick. Yeah, you are she says
You never held that against me before don't start now you buy me a drink and I'll forgive you Lucy
So-co and coke Johnny shouts to the bar made so-co and coke got it the bartender response
How's work Johnny asks
although he knows the answer
The usual marks an asshole everybody comes into that place is a fucking asshole and I do what I do
Smiling kiss their ass. Why don't you quit Johnny asks?
It's an earnest question even though the answer is known by him
She knows the answer to she also has the same question why don't you quit your fucking job stock boy
Ouch
Thanks Johnny mutters ejected
Well, I mean fuck of course I'd quit that job same as you but who's gonna pay the rent?
The bartender approaches them and places the Southern comforting coke in front of Jessica
So-co and coke she says matter of fact thanks Lucy
Johnny tells her thanks Johnny Jessica says to Johnny
Anything for you darling he says with a smile
Great your horny she says hey he replies defensively. I'm just don't worry
I am too she says with a smile
So there's Jessica
Again, where does Jessica come from kind of a composite character of
Growing up of traveling
If we've gone in different towns different cities
Restaurants bars, you know, she's a waitress
I know many Jessica's in my time and like you said
I think we've all known plenty of Jessica's and and look she's hard working
She's determined what she's up against the odds
And she's also productive and you learn this in the book she's a product of some bad decisions or at least some decisions that aren't great ones
Right so she kind of ends up in her
stuck in this position as well and and to quote Harvey Kytel
From reservoir dogs. Yes, her waitressing is the number one job for female non college graduates in this country
And I always I always you know because I worked in restaurants man
That's a freaking hard job and you got a smile
Right, yeah kind of customer service. It's got a smile
So not only are you working a hard job and people are treating you bad in some cases
Yeah, where this is in cook good enough
By the way if you if you ever are serving me and I return something to kitchen
It is totally jacked up because if it's not a totally jacked up. I'm just gonna like just like it
I mean you got to give me a raw bleeding piece of meat if you think I'm gonna return to the kitchen
What about the wrong thing so you can use you straight up the wrong thing they mess your order up wrong thing is it
Some mum down with
You know like is it okay isn't like hey, I ordered the rib eye get a piece of primer
Go I'll eat it. What if you get a fish
Probably going back
I'll be cool about it. Yeah, I'll probably just say you know what I might do in that situation. This is how nice
I am like it
Nice to say yeah, no because I'd probably be like hey, you know, I'm also interested in getting a steak and you bring your rib eye
You get both of my things
Yeah, maybe maybe put that in a z-o and I dog you bag or something do you uh do you?
On the inside do you actually feel bad that you have to do? Yes, you have to you feel bad
Yeah, I don't like I don't like I don't like messing with waitresses. I don't like you know anybody in service, right?
You know anybody in service. I don't like being that guy. Yeah, the the proverbial guy, right? That's like
Yeah, man. Can you hurry up with that? Yeah, you know I'm the guy that be like a you know
I guess I guess I'm not drinking water and I haven't seen a long run awhile
Well
But hey, you know when someone does good service like I'm definitely gonna take care of them too
Yeah, you know, that's what we're doing but that's Jessica right we get this she's sort of she's got honestly
She's kind of like a female Johnny in a way, right? She's smart. She's good looking
She's witty but
Maybe not the best choices maybe she didn't roll out in the best environment and
And that's addressed to in the book you know there's some there's some level of ownership that gets you know
Responsibility for our actions and she's the one that kind of pushes that like hey you can sit around here because
At a certain point I don't get too much into it, but Johnny started saying well, you know we didn't I didn't have the right up bringing in all this and she's like hey dude
No one made you quit
school no one made you do this no one made you you did those things
Um, but like you said these are these are
These are people these are normal people these are people in the world these are people I grew up with these are my friends to this day
People I met along the way
Now
That's kind of your main characters one more character I want to introduce and they look there's a bunch
There are a lot more characters in the book
I didn't say a lot more I tried to limit the number of characters as much as possible right I don't want to have this big complex
Story line that's hard to follow. I wanted it to be when you heard someone I want you just to know who it is and boom your locked
That was my goal simplicity
There's another character
That I want I do want to bring up because he does you got some he's got some a little bit of impact
And this character as you heard from the review from the publisher weekly review Johnny and go they work at a big box store
And their boss is this guy named Gerald Lundstrom
Jerry also known as Jerry and they call him
The Weasel that's what they call so let's get an introduction to
Gerald Lundstrom the Weasel let's get an introduction to the big box store
To what their jobs are and what they do there
Their stock boys so here we go
You would think Americans
Survived on fucking mayonnaise goat says disgusted no shit
Stockboys boxes
tile floor and industrial shelves food
detergent
Electronics pretty much anything can be found here
Every day from the time the doors open until they close there are customers here
buying milk and batteries and toilet paper and garbage bags
Tomatoes popcorn salami
People can buy anything here and they do
Consumption in massive quantities to fill their massive bellies and run up their massive credit card debt
People
flesh cover grow-bob beings in need of fuel and meaning
They find both here
I mean honestly who the fuck needs a half a gallon of miracle whip for their house goat asks
Honestly trying to comprehend this madness well obviously a bunch of people need it all this will be gone in a couple of days
Go shakes his head what the hell do they do with it
Do they put it in their cereal or something? I think they butter their wives up with it
God damn that's fucking disgusting yet is Johnny agrees
From the end of the aisle allowed high pitched voice breaks their conversation
Jerry the night manager
You guys need to stop talking and get that stuff stacked up less talking and more stocking
We still got pickles mustard, Chris go and can ham
I got your can ham go whispers under his breath
Jerry walks toward goat and Johnny
Finn
late 30s
Smoker
greasy hair
beige Levi dockers
polo shirt
yellow
Gold colored necklace with cross gold colored watch
fake
What did you say Jerry asked aggressively?
goat stand up goat stands up straight and belts out I said I got your caned ham
Jerry shakes his head he tries to think of an original comeback but he can't think of anything good
He resorts to all he knows well you just keep running your mouth like that and we'll see if you ever make
Supervisor
Not wanting to engage in a verbal battle Jerry quickly walks away
goat stands there shaking his head mother fucker he says quietly
Then unable to contain himself shouts supervise this you weasel look in mother fucker
Johnny looks at him
I'd fucking kill myself if I ever made supervisor at this shit hole
Yeah, not fucking prick walking around like he's fucking Steve Jobs
loser fucking loser
At least he's easy to rip off Johnny concedes he has got that going form
I'm getting a couple bottles of jack tonight goats has
getting the nasty as rot gut gin I can find
So there you go that's the manager have you ever had a manager like like my boy like the weasel
Yes, there you go
God
Do I need to do character development or do we know who Jerry the weasel lunch term is right?
We're gonna use the schema unknown in the first and um
I had so much fun writing that dialogue a her chocolate hard k dog behind the scenes over there chocolate
I was wrong some of the just because that's what it's like right you know you're 22 23 years old
You're having you have a crap job
You know you don't they've broke
Yeah, he was a stock boy at Target and she was a stockboy when he was a target and he was like 15
And he's like you nailed the you nailed that dialogue you nailed those characters
And I go how's that I said how can that be you weren't like that and he was no I wasn't like that
I was 15 just trying to do a good job and trying to get money he goes but I worked with guys
That shouldn't have been working there that we're 22 23 24 years old and I would hear them talking and you freaking nailed it
He's guys talk to each other and talk shit
So we all know managers like this kind of a
stereotypical manager
And that's the way the world kind of gets put together for this book now
Again, I don't want to spend I don't want to start covering the plot of the book you kind of heard it from the review a little bit of what happens in the plot
You don't get the whole deal, but that's sort of the directional heading in gotta get the book to get there
But I did want to kind of just talk about some of the
themes some of the other themes that are in the book
One of them is is kind of this
Ideal of being obsessed with random things which we all certainly do I do we all end up obsessed with these random things and if you look at it from the outside
It doesn't make any sense so jiu jitsu
surfing
archery
rock climbing music guitars
NASCAR
Leap lawn super into your lawn right super into fishing super into yoga super into cooking
Super into grit like there's all these things that people just get into and
That level of obsession
Could be about anything right and that was that was one of the fun things that I had with already was
I was thinking what would be the most random kind of thing that you could be obsessed with how about
Laundry do laundry but there's not that much difference between being obsessed with doing laundry and and
Archery yeah, and I'm believe me. I'm pretty obsessed with archery. I spend a bunch of time doing it. I spent money on it like
Why
I could be making super clean clothes
Jiu jitsu hey we're super in a jitsu yeah, we could talk about this freaking skill on this and that but
At this point we have kind of the basic skills that we need to defend ourselves. We're just doing it
All-nother reason right lawns right like lawn care people get fired up for that stuff
So that's something that we do
It's an underlying theme in the book is man think about what you're doing. What do you obsess with why you obsess with it
We're getting this weird stuff. Yeah
Yeah, it is weird.
consumerism
Buying stuff as another thing we do you wrap that you wrap the obsession around
Also around a consumerism buying stuff and
If you've ever been to a big box store, which I certainly have been too many and
Still go to
Or Sasha should say still shop at because
Because I don't go to them very often. I'm okay my wife kind of gets that done
But you go into those places and it's so we consume a lot of stuff right and here's here's what I think is interesting and now I days you know this this this book takes place
in the
Early 90s late 80s. I'm gonna say early 90s
So there's no cell phones
But one thing that I've found that I think I believe and you can tell me what you think
I think we I think have you ever built something?
Yes, sir. I have any gave that took you some time and effort
What's the biggest thing you've ever built big biggest yeah, I don't know but
That wasn't that did not come from IKEA
Yeah, so okay, so I don't know the biggest thing that's gonna take a lot from me think of but the thing that did jump out at me was I used to make slingshots
one of the kids okay so
You go down in my case I go down the valley the canyon
And you'd find a guava tree and I like the guava tree would you and then you find where there's like a perfect
Why it can be like too narrow of a split got to be any can't be too wide either a lot of those
You got to find the perfect one
When we cut it cut it all three spots and you bring it back
You skin it
Let it dry for a little bit like a few days or whatever
I used it this is when I went extra on it. I'd sand it down so it looks kind of cool
You can put finish on it. I never really did that and then you go by it's called surgical tubing
Then you yeah, you attach them and then you cut off the tongue of your shoe
I'm like an old shoe or whatever you cut it off and then poke the two holes
Use a knife or even like a whole puncher. It's harder to do the whole puncher, but you know you did the two holes attach the
Surgery surgical tubing what I would do is I do this
Circle surgical tubing go in the hole curl back. I'd super glue it together
Wrap it with thread not too tight because it might start cutting into when it starts to oxidize a little bit and then tape like small piece of tape
It would be super strong super strong the same thing both sides are all four
Attachments and boom there you go looks nice too
How did you feel when you were complete? Yeah amazing that's why I do a bunch of them like I don't need like five slingshots
But yeah, yeah, I got the two or three going so I think there's some I don't know there's probably some
Chemical dopamine hit or whatever that get when you actually do something when you build something like I've built
So like like redoing my house like re-mod like ripping out gutting my hat one time I did my kitchen and I gutted it
In 72 hours I gutted the whole thing demoed it got it out
Readed the electrical read the plumbing
Put in a sub box what's that called? I put in a sub box for the electrical
I forget what it's called but I put in like a whole new electrical system and then I dry walled it
And I did that all in 72 hours and but you feel like accomplishment right?
Building like fences at my houses building I I remodeled my other house so like these major projects
You feel this good sense of satisfaction when you're done
Well in the modern world we do a lot less of that right so what so you can replace that sort of satisfaction
By clicking on the Amazon whatever by now right and all of a sudden you feel like but the thing is since you didn't put much effort into it
It's not that gratifying so you want to do it again. Yeah, so I think that's why people roll in the freaking Costco
They roll in the Costco and they roll out with way more stuff because they just walk through those eyes getting that dopamine hit
Dopamine hit
Because they feel like they built
That thing or they harvest it. Yeah, it's the same thing when you go hunting and you like harvest the meat
Super gratifying
Super like
1000 times more gratifying
Then buying a stake at the store and believe me buying a stake at the store is kind of gratifying too
But you get that dopamine you're like oh yeah, then we're this gonna be so good
But it's way less so you buy another one, right? You know, then you buy this and you buy that right?
Yeah, that's weird huh, so it's kind of like when you kind of
Maybe cut it all the way down to what that's going on with that little transaction
It's like you know like almost for like better way of putting it in the wild or in the you know nature whatever
You put in this work and then you
You run through some challenges you overcome those challenges then you get the reward right?
That sort of the system and your brain
You know follow along accordingly boom you put in the work you get obsessive over it
You run into a challenge you overcome the challenge and you're back on your path to you know for that main goal
You know and the heart of you work the bigger the reward usually right?
It's far as in your brain like the bigger the payoff you know, so it's like if you go for a
College and then you then you really finally reap that reward in your case. It's hunting the elk or you know
Whatever whatever the reward is the prize right there boom there's your your ultimate
Satisfying dopamine hit whatever but now
It's the same thing except you reduce the work parts so much, but you still get the little reward
You know, but here's the thing you reduce the work the reward you get rewarded, but it's less work
Less rewards, so what do you do you do to get less satisfying?
Yeah, it's not much you just do it again. Oh, yeah, the culminate order this. I'm gonna buy that
And see you end up in this sort of weird cycle of
of
Satisfaction by just buying stuff
Brad the and you know, and we've talked about this two brothers the people who make the stores
The layout and stuff all they know about that kind of stuff. That's why there's a thing called impulse buy right
So they put the candy right there by the checkout stuff that you didn't plan on getting
But it's like
I think he's one of those right now. You know kind of a thing it's like a impulse by you ever get
I don't see you doing this, but maybe you do I don't know, but you know when you shop it on Amazon right and
And me I get a lot of care will relate to this where I get a lot of little cables and little tools
In whatever you know just for this thing or that thing or whatever and then when you check out or when you add it to the cart
They'll introduce all these other things
You can't play it. It's a bot
Yeah, then I'm like yeah, you sure you're like double me. No, no, oh, yeah
I could use that never gonna use it, but I could imagine myself using this pair of pliers
You know, so many I have two pairs of pliers by the way, I already
But that one with the red handle and I was kind of dope. I'm headed as a little thing on the side. I am the I am the most
I research stuff to the point where it's stupid you can try to get me to buy something
I was looking at
I was looking at one of my kids
Yeah, my kids Instagram and my my daughter was like oh, I have an advertisement every third
Whatever picture is an advertisement
And I go that no like oh, I hardly have any and I she's like no way and I showed her and I have like almost a no
Promoted ads
We know why I never click on them and they know I'm like low
Low conversion conversion I'm like the lowest conversion ever
I'm not even wasting their money throwing that thing you're crawling for me because you you could have the best freaking idea in the world
And I'm gonna start like I'm gonna have to research that
Yeah, I'm surprised Amazon just doesn't check me out without showing me anything because they're just over
But yeah, don't even try
So that's an underlying theme, but here's here's the here's the kind of the real
I don't know maybe it's that maybe it's the heaviest underlying theme is just the idea and it is it's about happiness, right?
Not only about happiness, but this sort of underlying
Being
Unappiness in the world underlying sadness in the world
When I was a kid and I was working in Wendy's and I saw a gene and I saw that she was freaking happy
And I knew
That I wasn't
And I didn't even know if I could be it didn't seem like an achievable thing it seemed like there was too much
It seemed like there was too much
Underlying
Things in the world that just are gonna be bad
Right
And I always sense that in the world I always sensed always I always had this sense in the world of this underlying sadness
Is underlying despair this underlying suffering
And I don't want to use the term depression because maybe you wrap all those things together because depression seems like it's a clinical
Sort of like a problem that you treat type thing and I didn't feel like this was a clinical problem
It just seemed like life to me
Was not the gonna go the way you wanted it to go
Go
For anyone
You're gonna end up in a wrong job you're gonna end up in the wrong relationship you're gonna something's gonna be wrong with your health
Something's gonna be wrong in your family
And we're gonna die I we're all gonna die and before we died we're gonna suffer
And by the way everyone that you know and everyone that you love is gonna suffer and die
I
And so I would always I kind of had this underlying sense of the world
And then I would catch like glimpses of people that were happy and
Sometimes it was someone like Jean there was another guy that worked at a freaking junkyard
Who was kind of jacked?
Especially when I was younger you know when you were younger and in the in the 70s if someone was jacked in the 70s like it was a whole
It was like the next level right
Because you're you're not used to seeing people that are jacked at all and I remember seeing this guy who has
It worked at a junkyard and
And he looked happy and I was like dude this guy's just jacked and just lived in engine parts around the junkyard
And it seemed like he was happy
So
That's sort of this underlying team and I'll tell you like when I got to the teams thank god
When I got to the teams that's when I started feeling like oh
Like kind of happy like this is cool that people on with are kind of cool and life's not going to be perfect
But we're going to have a good time living this imperfect life
So I started to get a little bit relieved of that as I got a little as I got older
But I think that
You know Johnny kind of realizes that he's not going to be happy
And this is the other sort of the other sort of underlying theme
is this idea of
Sacrifice and
When Johnny realizes that he can't be happy or at least he doesn't think he can't happy
He sees that you know kind of the way I looked at Jean the Wendy salad bar girl
But that's his brother
And the situation unfolds where he's not going to be able to be happy anymore where where
Arty is not going to be happy anymore and
Johnny knows if he makes sacrifices he could preserve the happiness for his brother
Especially because he's never going to be happy himself
um
You know I had this conversation with stoner one time we're out surfing and he was asking me that we said bro
I don't know it's like the same thing
He's like bro, I'm never going to be out how you how am I ever going to be happy? I'm never going to be happy
You know we were literally it's like a beautiful
Southern California we're out in our surf spot
For whatever reason there's not many guys out there's a little offshore breeze the waters warm
It's a you know chest to head high swell pretty consistent like it's it doesn't get any better
Hmm and he's out of here saying to me like I don't know how do you ever how you ever find happiness and I'm like bro
This is it man. This is it right here and that's what you
Know that's what that's what you have to be able to find
You have to be able to find that the path that you're on
Would even though it's challenging even though they're suffering that's that's the happiness too
And the sacrifice part is putting others above yourself. You know and obviously on this podcast we talk about heroes and we talk to heroes in many cases
And both the ones that we talk to here are military people right soldiers sailors airman Marines
But those aren't the only people
It doesn't the only people in the world that are heroes right and and I'm not just talking about law enforcement and you know firefighters and first responders
Well, there's all kinds of people in the world that put others above themselves
And put other people's happiness above themselves and
And whether that's mothers and fathers and
Sisters and brothers and wives and husband and friends. I mean there's friends that do that
Friends that put other people's happiness and other people's success above themselves and
Really that's that's the underl... that's one of the other underlying themes of the book
Is and that you know that's that's a theme that's consistent with all the books that have written fiction nonfiction people that are putting others above themselves
That's what leadership is and
Ultimately
That's what life is about
So
I think if you can put other others before yourselves
Then if we do that then you can find some happiness and add a minimum at a minimum
You can leave the world in better condition than you found it
And
If you can pull that off I think if you can pull that off
Then you can die with a clean and conscience and you can die with a smile on your face
And you can leave a smile on the face of the people you left behind
And that's a good life
And that is
I mean
So
We can't obviously cover the whole plot the details what we'll do is maybe in a year
Remember what we did with
Musashi yeah with Musashi so this is episode
episode 401
That's actually two years isn't it?
Yeah
People two years to sort it out is that long not what we do one year so we do so we say 350
Okay, we'll go 350 will shoot for 350 so 350 will do full spoiler will just tell everyone what's going on
We'll take a bunch of questions about the book
And yeah, we'll do it again what we can go a little bit deeper on all the plot
You know as I start getting feedback from people and people start asking all those awesome questions that you ask when you read books and what's this part about?
What is this represent we'll do all that?
The books for for sale right now
I would order it if I were you why I think clearly because you want that first of this
And there's another this is us against the establishment by the way
This is us against the literary critics
Right this is us against the big publishing companies the media companies
Where did the outsiders I'm an outsider I'm telling you what I go to New York City
And I roll into those publishing offices I am an outsider I might as well be purple
Because I'm not from that world right
They don't they the interesting thing is I mean I was an English major in college
They don't know about that they just look at me think knuckle dragger
Meathead which I take is a compliment. Yes, certainly
But yeah, they don't want us to win so
Join the cause right
Let's let's let's let's take the fight to them
Get that first edition and here's the other thing I was planning to do a
Speaking thing kind of like jockel live what we did last year right before COVID hit I was we were booking it up and the whole freaking
The industry still paranoid and a bunch of the venues started getting crazy with the way they were gonna run them and some of them wanted to cancel
And so I said all right fine, we'll put it off so I'm gonna do a jockel live tour with this
I don't know I don't know what cities I'm going to the only city I
Keep saying I want to go to is Detroit
I just want to go to Detroit and by the way, there's so you knew Jack White is
Jack White stripes. Oh, I'm thinking totally
No, I do now. Yeah, so he's got a thing up in
Detroit
He's got a
place where he can record
Bands
Straight to vinyl
So it just straight to vinyl. I think it's a venue that holds like 50 people
So I want to do jockel live there. I want to record it straight to the white
Yeah, and this get
Artisan on us yeah, bro straight to vinyl house
I think it might be the only place in America where you can do that
That sounds correct and plus the white stripes are awesome jackwights freaking awesome
So that would be sick to do so I'm gonna try and go to Detroit maybe after do a big show before that
To get everyone in there, but then after that
We'll go straight to third man records
Straight to vinyl
Do you have a record player? Yeah
Let's look into that one one my Amazon spirals the record player they have a lot. Oh, he's yeah
It's vinyl dude. Yeah, it's not going right. It's just we're talking about people being obsessed with things
Yeah, vinyl's one of them yeah get that vinyl out that record sounds better allegedly
I remember there's there's a motorhead album where he put in between the songs on the CD
Has like the record sound like this
Come out back pretty sick, right? Yeah, well that's I mean even with film that's all right
It's like no film looks like way better video end and photography
They're like not film all day. Yeah, I'll walk
Black did this lame lame doesn't look as good does it look as natural doesn't look as you know
Doesn't flow with your senses
So Detroit that's one city. I know I'm going to why cuz we want to get flow with our senses
Yes, sir. We're going straight to vinyl industry to vinyl. I don't even know if it's a possible thing
I don't I don't know if it's possible
Bet you know people might be like you can't do that you need you're not even a band
No, I'm gonna talk though. Yeah, it's an out you've done albums
We have no withdrawing milk right so this would be an album now. I'm straight up
You've been to jockel lives. Yes, sir. I have some of the money being cool record right
Yes, sir. They would be
vinyl vinyl all day man. Then you get clear vinyl you get the red vinyl right? You don't say
I don't know what red vinyl is but the vinyl's red that's what red vinyl is where you get the clear vinyl
What's clear vinyl clear the record's clear you can see through it
You're heard of it. I never heard of that okay dogs in the house in the game. Yeah, oh
So when I do that thing, but I guess it's gonna be spring or something like that we'll go live
We'll hang out if you're rolling up you got that second edition. Let's face it
I'm still appreciative
But you know I know we all know where you're at
Yeah, appreciate the support. Let's crush the world with this book
Echo speaking of crush in the world we kind of have to crush ourselves
Right in order to crush the world which by the way. Hey, you tougher. Yeah, which by the way
I came just came back from hunting and for I think it was 13 days. I did not lift weights
Because I was in the mountains
Or as I call mountains but I came back and I was all fired up, you know and felt like I need
Man I have domes in my arms right now
In my I haven't had domes in my arms in a long time
So we got across ourselves that can take a toll at times
What do we need to do to kind of stay on the path to get better? Well, so we across the world
Well, keep in mind mentally and physically. Domes in the arms that indicates that you're working out your arms which I respect
So you know, I'm sorry they have the dump but welcome to my world
Well, okay, so we want to minimize domes. Well, no, no maximize yet minimize mitigate domes. Okay. Yeah, I would say that's a good call. It's kind of a dichotomy really
Mm-hmm, but let's face it would you would you want to have domes every day on your arms with that include that
Increased progress or not
If you bad, right you know, I obviously there's a lot to it, but generally speaking simply put
Domes every day. No, probably not okay. You want when the domes heels
Then you want to elicit more domes and what do I have?
But that's a process is then it's ongoing unless all right what you do need a supplementation that'll help you
Do domes or no domes right on you
So through this path rolling on supplementation is very helpful. So we'll talk about energy drinks first
Right as far as energy see I know I said it energy drinks
As if that is if what we're talking about fits in with all the other categories of all these other
Drinks that are in the energy drink category. Yeah, so man, you know me if you're new to this when they're not
There's things that they don't don't that stigma that you felt like in your brain
I would ever order you drink so that stigma don't worry about that that's dig many more in fact forget that's digma forget it
Don't totally forget it because there's other drinks that still have you need to keep the stigma in mind
Yeah, but you can have the stigma of waitings. Yes, like you'd like like detach from the state
Yeah, but that leave it behind just leave it behind it doesn't control your brain and how you think of energy drinks
necessarily anymore if you know about
Jocco go okay, I can is a discipline go or jocco go it is
Jocco discipline go like I agree speaking I got corrected by someone on the inside which I respected by the way
But either way
Go
Jocco discipline go said energy drink that is good for you front to back good for you not the kind where you drinking
And
You know what have you ever seen that there's this commercial I think one of these comedy YouTube
Channels they're like oh if some like if energy drink commercials were honest or whatever they call it like a
A metal tube of
Psychedelic poison and something but if they they kept referring to it as a metal tube but some kind of place
Accurate yeah, oh, Brad watch the video. It's funny. You're like they own that is all true
That is it's interesting either way it's not that the stomach of the sis no poison
It's different. Yeah, actually good for you. It's good for you. It's like a health
Drink energy drink, but even though that makes it sound kind of like not really what it feels like
Just keep in mind. It's an energy drink a taste good is good and it's good for you and
gives you energy and gives you legit no chemicals
These weird preservative things because of process high quality it's quality
Many flavors the best in which is mango factually
Yeah, but you're gonna have to choose for yourself on that one. It's called jocco go. Oh
That junk warfare. Yes, sir. To come into it. Yeah, I I must say even joint welfare has its limitations because I
Need more right now. I take it every day. Thank God because otherwise I might need to be completely immobilized right now
Well, you're delayed up here's thing drone warfare is not gonna help your dogs. I really I mean
I mean me what is the problem the problem the protein protein is not help your dog
So joints joint warfare super curl
Right but when it comes to actual rebuild
We need to go moke. Yep. That's for the muscle. Yes
Additional protein in the form of the dessert. I know what I had for breakfast this morning
Which I normally don't eat moke
Guess what I had for lunch? Moke because I could I knew what you just don't look the doms
I know it needs to be yes, sir. I need to repair my muscles. Oh yeah freaking so or dude
By the way, speaking of moke the the new and you actually all the ingredients were in front of my face
But you turn me on to this or to the precursor of this new formula for the ultimate moke shake depends on what flavor
You like but if you like the chocolate one, this is the one
Mint chocolate or dark chocolate or a
Peanut butter chocolate whichever one you want
Half of a half of a frozen banana over right
Tulsi gear return me on to that. Okay, so we got it you know a little a collab going on
Frozen half a frozen banana two scoops of the moke. I did the darkness
Soy milk you know cuz like soy silk. I don't know whatever the one that it doesn't have lactose in it
It's super low, okay if you go regular milk and you're concerned about if you're trying to go lower on the calorie thing
Regular milk even 2% is not the best one for
Because I'm over here on the whole milk. Yeah, I'm strong
Half and half. Oh, you're not
Open this you know well you're not going on a lower calorie scenario
It's basic you can't you know your little machine can't handle that can stuff you know way if you are
This is the deal because I was gonna give it to the kids for the ultimate front end test you seem saying
Anyway, you go half
Soy milk or almond milk whatever the unsweetened one and then half of that it's lactose free
It was the chocolate milk that you you mentioned. Oh, yeah, it's like lactose free
There's way less sugar and it's like double triple filtered or whatever
Yeah, and you go half that too. Oh just for the extra boost of chocolate or whatever
Man drink that on a taste like ice cream
I think the banana but it's not a whole banana so you don't get the real super banana flavor
But you get the sweetness from the banana and probably taste like it's ice cream for real
Yeah, oh yeah put ice in there boom mix that up there you go milk protein in the form of a
Highly desirable dessert highly desir highly desir highly I'm just right now already have two
That's a well it's true also chocolate tea you're into tea you know something light
That's the OG that's the original is the OG oh yeah you like it is the OG
I was never a tea drinker to be honest with you and but I was and I was surprised about how many like
T-drinkers were like the brother chocolate. T is that's it's the legit one yeah
Oh, yeah, you're just you you can get all this stuff
At the vitamin shop you can get all this stuff at jockelfuel.com
By the way if you subscribe it gets shipped to you for free
You can get the the energy
Drinks here's the thing you see you mention energy from time to time. You know what energy is
It's energy is an actual thing. Yeah, it's it's a hener graces got something
It's hener graces charisma his whole oh that's his you know like yeah, you know when he talks he's like he's real brother
That guy's on it man. Yeah, listen. They guy talk forever and that energy that he brings that's a
Energy straight up. I thought it was like he made mix some food up, you know
Maybe an Aussie bowl, but that was a energy one. I think the presentation of that yeah
What's the energy so I'm just saying we got what we need to talk to the to hener then and get it you know
Maybe he could approve of the energy drink over here
What I think it's in the present it so I'm just saying it might be might be I don't know
Maybe maybe not but it might be misleading to say hey they are considered henergie drinks you see I'm saying
So okay, so this was not officially endorsed by hener
Yes, okay, but if you want to get these drinks
Gen or G drinks this made it up because there's a jockel energy drink
No, you want to get these gen these genergy drinks
You can get them out. Wow. Well on the East Coast and by the way, we're we'll be rolling out for everybody else in the country
That's not on the East Coast that's been hitting us up like what about this store? What about we're working them?
And we should start to see some those other big stores across the country roll it out shortly so that you where you can get
So yeah
Yeah, there you go. You know special. So we can get some you know you want some you know some American made stuff
I want to say stuff. I don't mean just random stuff right good stuff
Gen's boots
Various other leather goods depending on how creative Pete is feeling the wallets in there
Can you still get the wallet? Yep both of them? Yeah, there's like a small one in a big one
Yeah, so back to the jeans Delta 68 and the the what's your OG factory jeans
Um
Impressive jeans and I care about more elements of jeans as far as when you put on jeans then then this jocco guy
You care about a number of things which are critical and fundamental. I get it functionality. Yes, sir
There's all I care about yes sir and in life, but me I care about the fit
You know when I put on the jeans I live it is part of functionality. Yes in my opinion. Okay, I care about the aesthetic
fit as well. Okay, yeah, I understand yes, sir
So you know when I'm in the mirror. I look in the mirror and I look at myself
And I look at my wife next to me and if she's like giving me the approval that means a lot
Same versus I put them on and she's like
Stolic face maybe saw our face
Wow, that's gonna be rough and you know, let's see what else maybe you have like those types of reactions that means that means just to me
Seems saying my wife is just stoked. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you know why she's stoked because you put on the Delta 68 like it is in my case look
Maybe it doesn't mean much you nonetheless it still reaps the same benefits you seem saying and your wife my wife
They're there to convey you know they're approving that and around week. Oh you seem saying
So it doesn't matter if you notice or not or gen USA dot called oh yeah American made so
When I say American made it doesn't mean we
A symbol them you know no in you know this zone and grown grown and
Sound right here in America everything from the real building this whole freaking country bringing manufacturing back to here
That's what we're doing. Yeah, I do some great stuff over there
Also jacquoise store it's called jacquoise store that's where you can get your shirts and hats and hoodies anything you want to wear to represent the path
Discipline equals freedom
You can go deep on the idea of disciplinical freedom by the way. Yes, you can
Sometimes kind of hunt it hard to understand but when you understand I mean I wrote a whole day of book about it
So
We say I would
Yes, sir, yes, sir, nonetheless you want to represent every time I could go to
I have gone beat well, I'm thinking you know how okay you ever elicent a music when you work up? Yes, okay
So sometimes I will do sometimes sometimes a little as a podcast depending on the podcast
Sometimes a podcast can distract you from the workout by the way, so keep that in my but every once in a while
I'll I'll go with nothing
Not listening to anything good that's when your mind like you find your mind just going deep on some random thing
That's always in front of your face or whatever and that's what happened recently to me
Discipline was freedom
And you man I have the freedom to do all this stuff, but I'm not gonna do it because I'm disciplined you seem saying
And you can go deep in your own mind anyway if you're representing that you can get your shirts and hats and
It is a bunch of other stuff on jockelstore dot com also we have a subscription situation called the shirt locker
Kind of an exclusive deal, you know, it's a monthly thing you get a new shirt different from the from the
Years go to the
It's like the exclusive it's available to anybody
It's really exclusive
If you're part of the shirt locker you're wearing your shirt locker shirts
Someone who's not part of the shirt locker. They see your shirt. They're gonna be like hey, where can I get that you seem saying?
Yeah, that's the in exclusive it's pseudo exclusive right nonetheless cool cool designs
Jockelstore dot com speaking of subscriptions you can subscribe to this podcast if you want to and
It's everywhere we also have some other podcast jockel unraveling podcast with my bro
Darrell Cooper DC we're a quarter couple this week
Grounded podcast with or even where we hold onto that well not through it still out there it's
People some people are waiting for let's say seven people it's the non scheduled podcast
Okay, we'll see maybe at some point we just roll back deep on the grounded podcast warrior kid podcast
We also have the
Underground jockel underground podcast to it's our
It's our alternative location
In case things get
tyrannical around here
Maybe I don't think they will but
Some days I wake up thinking maybe they will so anyways we've built to platform that we can operate on with pure
Independence and not have to rely on the current platforms that we're on we hope it doesn't come to that
But if it does we would be foolish for us not to have a contingency plan if you want to help us with that
You want to be a part of that go to jockel underground dot com because eight dollars and 18 cents a month
You can probably figure out what that stands for
$8.18 some of but listen if you can't afford that
But you still want to support you still want to be in the game email assistance at jockel underground dot com we'll get you in there
We release another podcast one to week that's a little bit more
It covers some tangental topics
Try and give you a little bit more information let you know what's going on
Do a Q&A we're answering a bunch of questions on there
So if you want to if you want to help us out there go to jockel underground dot com yeah that one's good
It's um and the way I you know
He like you go along with a certain thing and you could try to evaluate and maybe sum up like what is this?
What is this right and you know you say Q&A which it is essentially but it's like it's kind of like when you go through life
Whether be currently or before whatever
I'm just saying you think about your past you think about the present
Uh, this all these weird question what what but like this is a funny way of saying it
You know me dear before
It is true. It is true. Yeah, yeah, nonetheless you're still gonna have like
Like you know how there's like questions rolling around like what does this what does this mean like what's my take on this?
Not the end of the day, you know if you're the kind of ask ask that question to yourself
I think you offer really good like you're take on it and it's usually really informed usually
Um and it can kind of help a lot of us make sense out of certain elements of life, you know
Whether be the specific questions that people ask or the first part that we talk about like you know
Is our is our our children soft now, you know, it's society becoming soft or like you know
So coming to the to the trick of advertising
That can stuff like that's real stuff that we're dealing with like daily, you know
Yeah, I think it brings awareness
Yeah
We talk about if I wanted to scare you
But I told you hey, I'm gonna be in the house and I'm gonna scare you what are my chances of being able to scare you?
Almost zero if you don't know
And I would say I'm 99.9% gonna scare you
So with life
If you
Have an opportunity to think through a problem or think through a question before you actually have to contend with it
It's gonna make you
unscarable yeah, so just that's as another I think that's the benefit of the jocconerground.com
podcast is where addressing those kind of things to get you in that situation where you can't be scared
Or you you're ready to deal with whatever's in front. Yeah, yeah, yeah, fully
But yeah, also we have a YouTube channel
Jocquipotcast YouTube channel boom x some excerpts on there video version this podcast
Some enhanced stuff on there what I put some behind the scenes I was gonna say some behind the scenes
Here's the page
I don't release it
Very occasional everyone's in a while
We will happen a lot of times against your will but then it usually becomes against my will
We go down like certain
You know little pass or whatever and here's the thing. I don't say we post behind the scenes
Stuff on there even though we do because it's not very easy and regular but they're on there though for sure if there are some behind the scenes
info conversations
worth
posting
They're on there. Yeah
Had a benefit yeah YouTube. That's a good one also origin HD
Yeah, yeah YouTube channel very good. You want to see the you want to see the
the
What you're gonna like a Phoenix out of the ashes industry and how someone can do
that yeah, can achieve that
Step by step boom that's an that's a perfect example as you can see that go down for sure
So yeah checked out on out on YouTube as well also got a
Speaking of albums now this one is not on vinyl no one not yet anyways not yet recorded at jackwights studio in Detroit
I'm looking forward to that
I hope I get to do that that be right right it would yeah, especially that kind of like where you said there's like 50 people or someone
Yeah, yeah, yeah like a small yeah super hype
I wonder if I get super hyped for that I think I would you know sometimes I get hyped yes I do know
Yeah
Well, this one's not on vinyl, but it's called psychological warfare little
little
Mental spots to help you get through those moments of weakness you can get that anywhere you get MP3s
Also flipside canvas dot com that's a code of mire he's got a company where they're
Printing stuff for you to hang on your wall awesome stuff keep you on the path also got some books obviously
First and foremost final spin you got the intro
Find out what the hype is about
Good man
pre order right now comes out no fember first week in November
Competitive people are gonna be watching who who's looking at it. I don't know
We'll see what happens. It's a risk it's a risk. I asked my editor
When discipline was freedom field manual comes out came out who one is about to come out
I said if you were taking this much of a risk before in the book he said no never because it's so different
He said this one same ballpark
He does the kind of book this the book doesn't exist. There's no book like this
So final spin if you want to support you want to be high five and you want that first to dish order that thing leadership strategy
In tactics field manual the code the evaluation the protocol
Disminators freedom field manual the brand new version
Way the warrior kit one two three and four Mikey in the dragons about face by hackworth and of course
Extreme ownership in the diagram of leadership that are wrote with my brother life-bap and it's speaking of
Lave babbin we have a leadership consultancy
We solve
Problems through leadership go to echelon front dot com for details
We also have a master coming up to live event. It's in Las Vegas October 28th and 29th
Coming get some of that
You can find all those things that are national on front dot com we also have an online training at extreme ownership academy
The leadership is not something you just learn and now you're good at oh I got a I got a shot of leadership
I read one book now. I'm good. No. You got to work at like the gym
So we got a leadership gym for you go to extreme ownership dot com for that
And if you want to help service members active and retired you want to help their families you want to help a gold star family's check out Mark Lee's mom
Mammy Lee she's got a charity organization and if you want to donate or you want to get involved you want to help out
go to America's mighty warriors.org and if you want more of my ridiculously rambling reads or you need more of echoes ob two
cipinians
You can find us on the in a website on twitter on the Graham and on that Facebook
Echoes echo Charles I am at joc on well like and
Thanks to all the men and women in the army navy air force and marines look final spin as a book. It's a fiction story
I sat around and came up with this idea and eroded and the only reason I was able to write it the only reason I had the freedom to write that is
Because you all are out there providing security and stability through your service
So thanks to all the military and the same goes to our police and law enforcement firefighters paramedics EMTs dispatchers
Correctional officers board a patrol secret service and all first responders
We get to do what we do because you do what you do every day to keep us safe and
Everyone else out there
Happiness
Happiness is an a destination you don't get there you don't arrive
You are there
This is it and it might not always seem like it
But the struggles and the sacrifice those are life and those ultimately are happiness
And you will find them most clearly if you put others before yourself
To keep pushing keep looking up
Stay clean and of course keep getting after it
And until next time the Zechko and Jockel out